
the current system:

regions are defined per-map in special region files.
each region is a union of an arbitrary number of rectanges.
regions can also specify the 'IsBase' option.
regions are named.
any module can query if a given point is in a given region.
any module can ask for the base containing a given point.
region files are created by a special utilty which reads standard .lvl
  files which use a certain tile (turf flags) to mark region boundaries.
the marker tiles must form a complete boundary.
the rules for determing the boundary from a set of marker tiles are a
  bit confusing and can be improved. the current method is to jump to
  the closest marker in any of the three directions other than the one
  that it just came from.
the region files must be edited by the mapmaker after being generated to
  name the regions that were found, and also to specify the IsBase
  option for each.


these abilities might be desirable:

any module get a list of the regions in a given map.
regions should contain information telling the server what to do with
  them. that is, autowarping regions should specify the destination
  location, etc.
regions should be able to be completely determined from the .lvl file in
  question, names, properties, everything. this requires cooperation
  from the map editor and perhaps a new file format.
it would also be acceptable if the map editor could just save the
  information in a .rgn file itself.


things we might want to do with regions:

let regions be autowarp regions: they should warp the player to another
  location.
let regions be bases for flag games. the server could keep automatic
  statistics about which bases were used to win.
let regions be 'goals' for flag games. I can imagine a flag game where
  the object is to drop the flag in a certain location. this would be
  closer to football than the soccer of the ball games.
regions can also help enforce some of the rules for hockey-type zones.
let regions be boundaries for flying and flag drops. players flying
  outside the region would be warped. flags simply wouldn't drop outside
  the region.
disable certain things (e.g., antiwarp) within regions.
regions can have special function in rpg-type games:
  only buy/obtain items/upgrades/weapons from certain locations.
regions can be goals for racing games.
things that regions are used for in infantry?

from ekted:
- showing region names on screen as you fly through them (ala Cosmic
  Rift)
- spawn locations for ships/freqs/balls/flags/greens


