
First email ------------------------------------------

Date: Mon, 1 Oct 2001 22:18:45 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: [sscouncil] SS Linux Server
To: sscouncil@yahoogroups.com
From: Grelminar <grelminar@yahoo.com>

Jonathan Cartagena <cyberise@g...> wrote:
> -- What is the status on the subspace linux game
> server? --

Hi, I figured this would be a good time for me to jump
into the discussion. I've been on this list for a few
weeks, but haven't felt comfortable posting anything
yet (Zippy's comments are too intimidating :) ).
Anyway, in case you're worried, yes I do take this
whole Subspace Council thing seriously, and I do read
my mail at least once every other day. Before I answer
your question, I'll throw in a bit of biographical
info, since I started composing an introductory mail a
few days ago:

I'm 19 years old, attending college in the US. I won't
give out my real name or location, although you're
welcome to try to figure that stuff out for yourself
(we've kind of been making a game out of finding
others' personal information on the powerbot chat).
I've been programming computers since I was 6 or so,
and been playing subspace for at least 4 years
(version 1.26 was my first, I think).

I first started working on bots a little over two
years ago. I created a stable, portable bot core in
C++, that unfortunately, isn't being used anywhere at
all. Well, that's not entirely true. I wrote a
console-based chat client as a plugin to the bot core,
and I use it regularly to chat in subspace from linux
machines, as do a bunch of other people.

Now, about the server:

The project I'm working on right now is a subspace
game server, written from scratch in C. I started it
around eight months ago. Before I say anything else, I
should mention that I started it as a fun and
educational project. If it becomes neither fun nor
educational, I won't work on it anymore. If it's never
used on any public zone, I'll be disappointed, but not
by too much.

The reason it's taking so long is primarily because
I've been trying to get the design perfectly right.
I've discovered a bunch of limitations and uglinesses
in my design at various points, and have lots of time
rewriting stuff to make it right. In fact, I'm
currently in the process of rewriting a lot of the
core login processing and arena management (this
should be the last time for those sections).  The
other reason it's taking so long is that I'm involved
in a lot of stuff at school this semester, and don't
have a lot of time to work on it. But when it's done,
if it's done, it will kick ass :)


I'll add a small status report here just so you can
get an idea of my progress: right now, you can log in,
download maps, switch arenas, chat, fly around, and
kill people. It connects to a billing server and
authenticates players. It's missing scores, bricks,
banners, lag features, security features, custom ship
settings, and lots of other random stuff.

If you have any questions, feel free to email me. If I
get lots of mail, I'll probably feel more guilty about
not working on it and it might get done faster too :)

--Grelminar


Second email -----------------------------------------

Subject: Small status update and questions

In case you've forgotten by now, I'm writing a
subspace game server from scratch.

I've been getting a lot of work done on it the last
few weeks, because it's winter break and I have
nothing else to do. Specifically: the logging in and
network connection stuff is much more robust, flags
have been added, and some things have been
restructured internally so it's easier to write
extensions and have them run for particular arenas.
Plus tons of bugfixes. Balls should be coming soon.

Currently only 1.34 clients can connect. I'll have to
talk to Priit at some point about continuum.

I've been playing around with strange features too.
One that I've been working on for a few days is named
regions. The basic idea is that a map maker can define
certain areas on his map to have names, and the server
can treat them specially. For example, it can warp a
player somewhere if he flys over one of these, or give
him special prizes, or disable antiwarp, or not let
flags be dropped there, or lots of other things.

There are a few things I'd like some feedback about:

First, there needs to be a good and easy way for
mappers to define regions. Obviously, the best way to
do this is in the map editor itself. So someone would
have to create a new map editor, or add features to an
old one. Am I correct in assuming that no one has the
source code to ssled or ssme? Could the source be
obtained somehow? Could someone else write a new map
editor with these features?

Second, there needs to be a standard way of storing
the information about these regions. I think the best
method would be to embed it in the .lvl file itself. I
have a few ideas about how to do this without breaking
compatability with existing .lvl format. The other
option would be to keep information in a separate file
alongside the .lvl file. This is what my server
currently uses, but that can easily change. Of course,
this would have to be worked out with whoever is
creating/modifying the map editor.

Third, I need to design a simple and complete
interface so that other parts of the server code can
use these regions without knowing the details about
how they are implemented. To do this, I need to know
all the possible uses for the feature. I listed a few
above, but I'm sure there are many more things you can
do with named regions that I can't think of. Please
think of ideas and let me know.

Grelminar

